My question to you, Venerable Nun,
is that I wish to renounce worldly attachments and become a nun.
I was planning to go to the temple last year, but my mother
cried so much that I couldn't go
until this year. It's been a year now, and I've reconsidered.
I feel that my wish last year was
n't entirely justified because I was still
feeling disillusioned with life, and there were so many
sad things happening in the world. So, I wanted to stay at the temple for
another year, and I've seen
some benefits. Through experiencing many things, I've become
more patient and tolerant. I
've also explained this to my friends, encouraging them to come
to the temple to practice. However, I
have a friend whom I was
in love with since high school. He still loves
me, but things have changed over the years, and
now we're just friends.
Recently, he's been teaching martial arts to
me and my friends, and I'm
wavering because I see him often and still feel his
special attention. I'm particularly
moved, but I don't want to be consumed by
that attachment anymore because I know that true happiness
for me no longer comes from
that kind of love. I hope you can give me your guidance.
What kind of karmic connection led to such feelings between you and him? And could
you give me some
advice on how to prevent
my spiritual practice from being influenced
by those feelings?
Dear fellow practitioners,
in society, those who have the karmic connection to become monks or
nuns will become monks or nuns, and those who have the karmic connection to remain at
home will remain at home. This isn't Yen's
answer to tell everyone to
become monks or nuns. It's based on karmic connections. Right
now, your heart
is strongly inclined towards becoming a monk or nun, which is why you're
hesitating between becoming one and your former
boyfriend. I'll
say this: We read
Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs; there was an
apple. The witch gave you an apple.
This apple was painted very
beautifully, wasn't it? And it had a
very fragrant scent. Now that we have the
aspiration to become monks or nuns,
we still experience many emotional stirrings, just
like monks who become nuns and still
have those feelings. But we
must understand that after building a
family, it's like the inside of the apple.
So, will that apple still smell
as delicious as it does?
After starting a family, will the apple still smell as
fragrant and evoke the same feelings as it does now,
or is it just the suffering inside? Those are the
hardships. If we can understand that there are
hardships inside, then we must
decide for ourselves that it's just a tempting flavor, and the
inside isn't as
fragrant and delicious as it seems. Therefore,
all those who love each other
deeply get married, but after starting a
family, they say, "Oh, I'm so miserable! How can I
stop suffering?" Yen has never
seen anyone say, "I'm so
happy! I'm so happy!" She
only hears about suffering because of her children, suffering because of her
husband, suffering because of her wife – so many hardships, or perhaps it's just
her fate. Yen only hears about the
suffering; people
don't talk about the happiness, so she doesn't know.
In this place, who among those who got married and feel
happy? Raise your
hand! I don't see anyone at all!
So, look at your apple again;
that feeling is when you smell the fragrance.  I am
asking a question from the Buddha on the apple peel. I am 25 years old and live in Khoai Chau,
Hung Yen. I am asking for your guidance. I have a boyfriend who is
26 years old. We both
have stable jobs and
earn about 20 million VND a month. We were
planning to get
married in November, but I've been feeling awkward
lately. I've noticed he's very sad. When I
asked him, he said nothing was wrong and kept it a secret from me.
However, I consulted a
fortune teller who said our parents said we are incompatible. I
also talked to him about it, telling him
that we are incompatible, that we only
lack merit, because I've
heard many teachings from you. But
he still hasn't made a decision
of his own and depends on
his parents. I wonder if
his family looks down on my family
because my family is very poor and
my father has passed away, so I don't think we are worthy of
his family. So I went to the temple to do volunteer work. I
confided in a friend there,
and she advised me to go home.  I'm going to the temple to study and
become a nun to escape
suffering, but I still don't have enough faith in
whether becoming a nun is really good. A woman only gets to shave her head once, and my merit isn't enough yet, teacher. So now, if I want to go to the temple to study and become a nun, what should I do to forget that guy? I hope you can guide me. This is a
young person, and in his situation,
he should consider this:
Consider the love between the two of you, don't consider your
parents. Don't consider
your parents' opinions. If your parents went to a fortune teller, for example, they
told you that if you marry him you'll
lose your
life, and you're afraid, then you won't marry him. If you're afraid, will you be happy marrying someone who loves themselves more than their partner? You'll
never be happy.
Just because of a fortune teller, you
won't be happy. Because in this
world, we see many
cases where people are in love, and their parents can't stop them. They can't
stop
them if the love between the
two is not good, for example, if they are involved in bad behavior.  If someone is
flawed, I can decide not to
marry them because
I've seen their flaws. But
just because of a simple reason—a fortune teller said we were
n't compatible—he
decided not to marry me.
Such a person can't bring
happiness to my life,
because there will be times in my life when
I'm sick or
have a serious illness. Then, if I get seriously ill,
this person won't be faithful
to me. If a man leaves you like that,
you
need to face reality. Is that
true love?
According to me, it's not
true love. True love requires
mutual acceptance
of all circumstances to be together,
but it must be with good intentions. If
that person is good, then I will marry them; if they are
evil, then if my parents
advise against it, I should leave. As for becoming a
monk, don't think about it yet. Thinking about it like
this isn't the ideal. Liberation is achieved
simply because you can't have love.
If I become a monk, I won't attain enlightenment. If I do become a monk, I
must first understand my ideals.
Even if I become a king, a high-ranking official, or
do anything
else, I realize that it's not as fulfilling as
the path of monastic life seeking liberation. Only when I have
fully understood this should I choose the
path of monastic life. For now, I'm just in the
process of understanding it; I shouldn't
rush into the idea of ​​becoming a monk. As for forgetting that male friend, it's not something I
can forget immediately. I can't just keep contacting him,
but not by
clinging to his feelings like
before. Before, I was controlled by
my emotions, and I was led
astray. Now, I'm using my intellect, understanding what
love is,
how it affects marriage, and if two people
truly love each other, what will they overcome
after marriage? And what kind of
people
won't find happiness after marriage?
If someone finds
happiness after marriage, it's because they were in love during the courtship period.  There
must be standards; people
must use their intellect. What
is moral? Both of them must know
how to set those standards. For example, what about parents? What
about marital obligations? What
about agreements in a relationship?
For instance, something like, "It's absolutely forbidden to have an affair,"
or something like that. There are
moral standards. If we
love each other like that, it will last.
But if we only love each other because we see each other
earning a lot of money, then something
bad might happen, and we won't be able to earn money anymore, and the
love will end. So we need to consider what
we are loving each other for.
Sometimes, those in love need to
pause and reflect on their
love for each other, what aspects of their relationship they possess, what they need
from this love, and how they will continue
this love with a happy family life.
That means having
conversations like that, not just meeting up,
clinging to each other, saying "I miss you," "I miss you," with
empty platitudes, eating out,
going out, or buying each other clothes,
shoes, or sandals, and then suddenly
judging each other.  Oh my god, he's
so psychologically insightful! No, that's not it. What you
call that is
achieving your goals at all costs, even if you
don't have money, you'll borrow to
satisfy them. That's not right. You
need to understand love, how it leads to
marriage, and
what kind of love makes a marriage happy. Young people, you have
so much knowledge. You can love
5, 7, 10 people, that's from your school days,
but when you get married, you
have to calm down, think carefully, and then
decide. Then you won't make
yourself or your parents suffer.
Yesterday, Yen also had a girl who
knew about it. She got married, and
in her messages, she said she was pregnant for 6 months,
then the couple separated.
That means it's just infatuation based on
feelings. That means feelings of
affection, not love.
You see a handsome guy, you like him, you like him, you
love him. That's not
it. You're just being
infatuated without any intelligence, and you'll
suffer. You have to use your intellect. It's true that
girls are easily swayed.  Talent is important, but you must also possess
virtue. Having talent without virtue
won't bring you happiness.
If you have virtue, you will find
happiness. Even if you earn little money, you
can still share with each other. So,
this is the answer to your question.
Dear Ms. Yen, I have a
question. I am 19 years old this year and
currently have a boyfriend, but my parents
have arranged a marriage for me with
another man. Both families have discussed and
set the wedding date for the end of this year. But
I don't want to get married because I still can't
forget my ex-boyfriend. Furthermore, if I love
one person and marry
another, I fear I will always remember my
ex-boyfriend, and this would be considered
adultery in thought and lustful
in my mind. I know this is karma,
but I earnestly ask you to teach me
how to change
this karma. First, Yen, I've talked to
people who have experienced married life.
Indeed, if you love one person
and marry another, then
during meals, during
dressing, even during intimacy as husband and
wife...  Then their minds aren't focused on
each other, but on the person
they love. Yen has had
people who, when talking to her,
shared stories, like, during
intimacy, suddenly hearing the wife call out
another man's name.
That means she loves that other man, but
she's with her husband.
During intimacy,
she's thinking about the other man, not her husband.
Even though he said his wife isn't cheating,
she asked if there was anything spiritual about it.
Yen could only reply, "
Just consider that your wife isn't cheating;
focus on your
family, and don't worry about that call."
But actually, there are
people who have a deep love from their student days,
but then when their love fades,
their thoughts
are always with each other. After the second relationship, they get married because they've found love again. But here, it's a case of not loving the other person, but the parents force them to
marry this person, and they still
love each other. In that case, they do
n't love the other person, but their
parents force them to marry this person, and they
still love each other. In that case, it's difficult for them to be unfaithful.  To
avoid mistakes, as the elders often say, "
Old flames never die." In
married life, there are
many difficulties and issues that
need to be resolved, leading to
discord. If two people are
not wholeheartedly committed to each other,
infidelity will occur.
Regarding this, you should
explain to your parents
that you know for sure that
if you marry someone else today, you will have an
affair. If, for some reason, you
force them to marry someone else today,
they will have to accept that at some
point they will be accused of
their daughter's
infidelity. Because no one can control
that situation without true self-cultivation, right
everyone? So it's
best if you open up the part where you answer your
mother so she can hear it too, because your mother also wants
you to be happy. But truly, marrying
someone without any love
cannot bring happiness to them, and you
yourself cannot be happy either. [
Music]
Oh
[Music]